---
layout: post
title:  Culture shocks in Canada
date: 2023-11-08 21:00:00
description: Some things I found suprising in Canada.
tags: canada
categories: opinion
thumbnail: assets/img/culture.jpeg
---

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/culture.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=300 height=300 %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    ChatGPT drew this picture for the title!
</div>

I've been living in Canada for the past two and a half months, and let me tell you, it's been quite a journey! I've experienced a lot of changes in my life during this time, especially in terms of daily tasks like cooking, cleaning, and shopping. I know, I know! Some of you might be thinking that these seem like ordinary activities, but back in India, as a working professional in a metropolitan city, I never had to worry about them. Everything was taken care of so effortlessly and inexpensively.

I want to clarify that this blog isn't about comparing my personal life in India with my new life in Canada, or debating which one is better. Instead, I'm here to share my cultural shocks experienced immediately after my arrival.

Contrary to the popular belief that Canada boasts extremely developed infrastructure with huge buildings and advanced roads, I wasn't particularly surprised by that aspect. Many big cities in India, except for perhaps South Bangalore :stuck_out_tongue_closed_eyes:, match up in terms of development and sophistication. What truly caught me off guard were the ways people act and behave here. Below I highlight some instances.


### Zebra crossing
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/zebra-crossing.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=300 height=300 %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Another ChatGPT illustration.
</div>
Back in India, zebra crossings were more of a decorative feature on the roads, serving some vague purpose in the rulebook. Nobody really paid much attention to them. But let me tell you about an incident during my first week here in Canada that left me utterly baffled. I was out running errands, and as I approached a zebra crossing, a car slowly came to a halt. I was about to cross, but the driver, seeing me waiting, actually stopped and apologized! Yes, you read that right – he apologized! I was completely shocked. I mean, who does that? Why? These were some of the questions that I was thinking for quite some time.

In India, crossing roads was practically a battle, especially if you've ever been to Silk Board in South Bangalore during the morning rush :smile:. Even after two months, I still find myself taken aback every time someone prioritizes pedestrians. It's a delightful surprise, one that I hadn't anticipated before coming here!


### People are too nice!
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/merci.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=300 height=300 %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    ChatGPT subscrption showing its worth!
</div>
I am not not wrtitng this to impress any Canadian authorities who will in the near future be processing my VISA applications :laughing:. You will generally hear the word "Merci" soo many times here! It's fascinating how this simple French word has become a regular part of my vocabulary since my time in Canada. People here express gratitude for the tiniest gestures, no matter how busy they are. It's a stark contrast to my experiences in India. I can't recall anyone thanking me for such trivial things back home. Having lived in North India for a significant period, I'm well acquainted with the distinct language and tone of the people there (if you know, you know!). This cultural difference was initially quite surprising, but now, it has become a new normal for me.


### Vegetarian food and Indian food
I must admit, the availability of vegetarian options in Montreal has left me quite disappointed. It feels like most restaurants offer just one vegetarian dish on their menu, almost as a token gesture. Considering the growing vegan movement in the West, I had expected more variety.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/dissapointment.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=300 height=300 %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    I wish ChatGPT could cook food.
</div>

What surprised me even more was the Indian food available here. It seems that Indian cuisine, prepared by Indians, doesn't quite live up to expectations. The flavors have been toned down to cater to the Canadian palate. Canadians, like my roomates can't handle spice which often results in dishes being overly sweet and compromises. In general, I have been disspointed by chats, North Indian food and I dont even want to try South Indian out of fear of more dissapointment. On a side note, I simply fail to understand how panner costs more than chicken here! However, I recognize that it might be premature to form a final opinion, and I'm open to recommendations that might change my perspective. If you have any suggestions, please feel free to share!

 Montreal continues to surprise me in unexpected ways, like the unwritten rules of standing on escalators. Standing on the wrong side often results in a chorus of "excusez-moi" from fellow commuters. Despite the initial challenges and surprises I've encountered during my time in Montreal, I am determined to stay open-minded and optimistic. I believe there's a lot more to explore, both in terms of the city's offerings and in finding the right balance between my expectations and reality. I'm hopeful that with time, I'll discover hidden gems Montreal has to offer.