---
layout: post
title:  Kitchen diary
date: 2023-10-28 21:00:00
description: A page for everything I cook!
tags: food
categories: cooking
thumbnail: assets/cooking/roti.jpg
---
When I was in India, there never came a time when I had to cook. At home it was mom and at work it was either
office food, swiggy/zomato or our house help. Also, good vegetarian food was always readily available and cheap.
But all that changed when I came to Canada. The food was expensive and vegetarian options very limited. I had to adapt.
Myself and the lives of my three roommates depended on it :stuck_out_tongue_winking_eye:.

At first it was a bit daunting and confusing. There were too many things to manage: onions getting burnt, oil splattering everywhere. Plus I soon realised that my North Indian roomates could not take the heat.
So there was this balance of flavour I had to maintain. Oof! Thats a lot!

I started with the basics - cooking rice. It was not perfect but honest work. The sight of the final product very pleasing and satisfying. Below is the photo of the "first" rice!
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/first_rice.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=300 height=300 %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Rice cooked for the first time :sob:.
</div>

And then it was time for the next essential food - the dreaded roti! It is dreaded because the whole process was so
tedious and the roti's I made - 12 of them - got eaten so fast :cry:

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/roti.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=300 height=300 %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Roti (soo gol) made from scratch :heart:.
</div>

Things continued and I stated cooking new things - rajma chawal, chole chawal, biryani, aloo palak, soya manchurian. Slowly I began enjoying cooking. A task which at one point was tedious and exhausting became pleasant and relaxing. It was like therapy amidst the academic and social pressure. I found peace in my thoughts and the comforting aromas around me.

Cooking has given me a sense of comfort that if AI takes over my job (I feel like that will soon happen), I can start food business in Montreal - a city with a lot of demand for vegetarian indian food :stuck_out_tongue_closed_eyes:! Also, this has inculcated in me a deep sense of respect for my mom who used to cook for me :heart:

Let me not bore you with more details. In this post I will be adding the food I cook and a few moments we had along the way. I might group them and make this more interesting in the future.
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/biryani-1.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=300 height=300 %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    First biryani (not pulao okay)! That was very very tasty and it looked amazing also.
</div>

Cooking biryani the first time was a memorable moment and my roomate captured our reactions!

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include video.html path="assets/video/biryani.mp4" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" controls=true autoplay=false%}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    I might have been a little too excited :satisfied:.
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/aloo-da-paraatha.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=300 height=300 %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/aloo-da-paratha-2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=300 height=300 %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Aloo da paratha! I was surprised that it came out this great since this was my first time making this. Made me wonder if I had a gift!.
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/jeera_rice.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=200 height=200 %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/dal.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=350 height=350 %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    The fundamentals - Dal and jeera rice.
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/bisi-bele-bath.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=250 height=250 %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/bisi-bele-bath2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=400 height=400 %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Bisi bele bath straight from Karnataka. We did not have chana dal and ended up using whatever dal we had. 
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/mac-and-cheese.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=300 height=300 %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/noodles.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=200 height=200 %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Going global! Mac and cheese and, noodles. Mac and cheese is so simple yet soo tasty.
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/paneer-butter.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=300 height=300 %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Going to a whole new level with paneer butter masala!
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/rajma.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=300 height=300 %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/rajma-chawal.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=300 height=300 %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Rajma chawal. My co-worker used to cook this for me in Hyderabad and I fell in love with this. 
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/aloo.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=300 height=300 %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/aloo-palak.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=300 height=300 %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Some carbohydrates. Aloo ki sabji and aloo palak with roti on the side.
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/pizza.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=220 height=220 %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/pizza.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=300 height=300 %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include video.html path="assets/video/pizza.mp4" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" controls=true autoplay=false%}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Anushka cooks the best pizza's in the world :heart_eyes:. Look at that cheese!! Damn! I was just eating here to be honest :stuck_out_tongue:
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/corriander.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=300 height=300 %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Wanted to make corriander paratha but ended up buying something that was definitely not corriander. Anyways it turned out great and tasty.
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/baingan.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=300 height=300 %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Simple and tasty baingan currey (aubergine for more gourmet-ness). Needed some more variety in life XD.
</div>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0 text-center">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/cooking/bhindi.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true width=300 height=300 %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Good old bhindi (We did not make those methi rotis)
</div>
